[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: I'm Rachel Nabors.
And I have built everything
from interactive
demonstrations of
Firefox's really cool web
animation tools to interactive
stories with Adobe Inspire.
We'll be taking a closer look at Alice
in Videoland a little bit later on in
this course.
And sometimes I even help clients bring
animation to their motion design systems
and style guides.
This is a more practical
application of animation.
And it's becoming even
more popular these days.
With things like
Google's Material Design And
IBM's motion design language coming out.
And showing people how animation and
motion are an important part of a healthy
balanced approach to UX and design.
I also run WebAnimationWeekly, which is
an excellent newsletter on the comings and
goings of this bustling space.
Animation has taken off, and
it changes literally every week.
So if you wanna keep up,
this is a nice little curated list
to get in your inbox every week.
What are we gonna learn today?
We're going to learn all about
CSS transitions and animations.
How do you use animation
in product design.
How to create stateful
animations with JavaScript.
How do you use developer tools
to manipulate said animations.
How to design performant animations.
Now, a few things before we move forward.
For your convenience,
all of these exercises use jQuery.
I realize that a lot of
people who will be in this
course are already fully competent
at using JavaScript without jQuery.
If you want to do the exercises
without jQuery, you're welcome to it.
But I also realize a lot of people come
into frontend development jQuery first.
Which is why these are not all written
in plain, old, vanilla JavaScript.
Everyone knows the jQuery syntax.
Everyone feels more at ease with it,
we're fine.
I'd rather you be paying attention to
the CSS animations and transition syntax.
Than figuring out how to do something
new with JavaScript that you might not
have done before.
We also use -prefix-free.
-prefix-free is a little library,
it's a little JavaScript library.
And what it does is it lets you write
your CSS without having to worry about
putting on -webkit, blah blah.
All the different prefixes
that some browsers may or
may not require to work correctly.
-prefix-free, what it does is you give
it a style sheet with no prefixes in it.
It compares it to whatever
the browser supports.
And if it sees that prefixes are needed,
it injects some of that
prefix CSS into the browser.
I do not recommend it for production work.
We are using it here simply because I want
you to focus on using this proper syntax.
Not on remembering what prefixes to use.
In a production environment you should
use something like autoprefix or
Sass mixins to handle that for you.
So bear that in mind.
I will mention when certain prefixes
are needed and with what browsers.
But I do expect you to have some
sort of a solution set up to
handle that regularly for you.
And lastly and most fun,
we are going to be using CodePen for
our experiments today.
I prefer to use CodePen over just
handing you a big GitHub repo.
Then spending an hour in the morning
getting everyone's dev environment set up.
Or telling where the files should
be stored on your hard drive.
CodePen is a lot of fun.
It is a site that lets you, well,
it's kind of like Dribbble for code,
if you're a frontend developer.
It lets you write CSS, JavaScript,
and HTML on one hand of your screen.
And then watch it live update in
the other hand of your screen.
Sounds a lot like DevTools.
Well, the nice thing is you can save
those examples and then share them.
Also, you can fork the examples I'm giving
you, and save them to your own account.
If you would like to do this, I highly
recommend you go to codepen.io now.
And sign up for
an account before we get started.